all right here we go
what's up Brian how are you hey good
thanks for being here man appreciate it
yeah I'm psyched about it I'm psyched
about having you yeah I'm getting now
adjusting to the sound Oh in your ears
yeah my ears and is it muffled it has it
all sounded all right perfect
all right cool so we were just talking
about your books and I said let's save
it let's save it for the podcast because
I wanted it to sound fresh I'll get you
to read it so tell me about you wrote
two books I wrote two books and you know
as you know I'm a you know movie writer
the movie and television producer say it
mildly yeah I made some fucking amazing
movies Wow thanks thanks Joe my pleasure
yeah and in all this I you know my whole
life and whatever those stories are the
movies are and the successes I kind of
think anyone that's really focused can
can do what I do so that was kind of the
end product of the first book which was
it was called a curious mind the secret
to a bigger life and that book is really
about I mean how much do you want to
know about it everything whatever you
tell me okay
so basically I couldn't read it all in
elementary school and it caused a lot of
trouble out of shame and then a lot of
trauma did you have dyslexia I dyslexia
very very quite acute dyslexia and I
think we're out in Woodland Hills which
was the fancy part of the valley I grew
up in the flats of Sherman Oaks actually
as a little kid going to Riverside Drive
Elementary School and then later two
Nobel junior high and then later
Chatsworth high school and in elementary
school I couldn't read it all and they
didn't classify it as dyslexia they it
was just you're slow you're dumb you why
can't you answer this and then you'd say
I can't read and then that didn't make
sense
it just didn't compute 'add really that
somebody couldn't actually read a word
and I really couldn't read a word
so when you can't read a word then you
find ways to survive cope and not have
the teacher look you in the eyes and say
okay
Bryan come to the board and answer this
question because you're never it's just
going to produce more shame because
you're not you don't know the answer
it's not possible so I found that as
that went on for a little while for
quite a while around the fourth fifth
sixth grade I really looked at people I
really looked them in the eyes to learn
and I found that by looking somebody in
the eyes you could engage I didn't know
this then
but you engaged their heart if you're
really doing it with sincerity and
interest you can engage people and move
them and evangelize things young get
people to like play on your team and or
you play on their team they pick you and
stuff good things happen except the
reading part but it it enabled me to
learn a lot just by looking at people
and talking to people and my guide this
one mentor this little grandmother uh
her name is Sonia and a little Sonia
she's like 410 I guess you know and she
would always say to me she'd see me once
a week
minimally always once a week and she'd
say you're going all the way you're
gonna make it big think big be big and
she had all these isms because a half my
mom's side of the family was Jewish my
dad's side of the family's Catholic the
Jewish side the grandmother was my
mentor and the worst that really was the
single person that I could kind of count
on in life and she'd constantly tell me
how how things I'd go great you have a
gift for gab she'd say and and every
time she said you're gonna go all the
way I'm thinking there's like absolutely
no empirical evidence I'm going all the
way anywhere except my parents were
always arguing let's put him back the
teacher Miss Stig said let's put him
back so I just wasn't going anywhere I
didn't think so so that gave rise to me
give rise to the fact that I thought the
way it can really learn a lot is
have these kind of curiosity
conversations and once I graduated
college I did this on a weekly basis and
have still do it to this day once a week
sometimes once every two weeks but never
more than once every two weeks I never
I'm pretty militant I'm extremely
militant about it like how do you do it
like what do you mean well what I do is
I think about it's often and I know you
do something possibly similar to this
and and and but my system would be I
borrowed myself with now I can read of
course and I was able to start to read
like in high school can you tell me how
they fix that they couldn't fix it it
wasn't fixable how to dyslexia reverses
words on you right versus the way you
view letters and yeah well it's great
initially as a kid it scrambles the
letters then when it gets better it
reverses the words and to this day I
still start on the right and go to the
left so it takes like really thoughtful
discipline to make sure I'm always
starting do you mean what the sentences
or the sentences with the sentence
really so you'll start at the right end
of you should read Hebrew or something
isn't that nice or something different
languages do that yeah I guess they do
but incidentally when you have dyslexia
it's very hard to learn other languages
yeah so I don't imagine very very hard
so um but I can read and I bombard
myself so how do you switch it around
like when when your your brain is making
you read right to left yes I started to
learn just create like just like an
exercise a discipline where I could like
in cut way as in college I was able to
read I could force myself to start on
the left and go to the right is there a
certain mechanisms that's causing you to
do right-to-left like do they know what
the cause of this is not that I know of
hmm not that I know probably something
neurological and certainly genetic I
mean I have no genetic trace but it has
to be a letter within your genome right
having to guess so you learned how to
read you learned how to figure it out
and then you said you you have these
conversations at least once every two
weeks so how do you do this like what do
you you organize them they're structured
they're structured they they're they see
there's a randomness to them because
often you'd have to I have to it's not
like getting on your show where
everybody wants to be in the show I say
that with a compliment of course but I
I'm begging people because even though
it down with you I'm begging him to sit
down with me and I'm groveling and I'm
calling assistance directly I still I
have three assistants but I make all of
my own phone calls always you know why
because I have this discipline of
getting to know assistants and going hey
it's Brian is Richard around or and I
just like I do that that's so refreshing
from a guy who's successful as you are
because so many times when people get
that successful you insulate yourself
with a bunch of other people who do all
the calls for you and open all the doors
for you and you just kind of you stay
insulated and more aloof yeah well thank
you thanks
well I yeah they do people do I mean
look there are producers that are sort
of that are you know let's say we're in
the same category same ilk that just do
it differently I made a lot of
deliberate choices through trial and
error I saw I went through the 80s where
Power guys had desks above the other
chairs that are on the other side I the
power guys always had black lacquer
furniture and they did all these power
things and I thought I want to I want
artists to like me relate to me and I
always did everything to create a
democratic environment because not that
I was such a cool guy but more like you
just get so much more out of a creative
person by not intimidating them sure
yeah and I just saw you know my peers
and sometimes often you know someone
maybe a decade ahead of me you know I
was so close to saying names but but
just those sort of tough
guys you know um and I I didn't think
that was an effective I just didn't
think was effective and I wasn't making
these really hardcore action movies I
was doing movies that were they're
designed to a might ignite emotion hmm
and feeling in fact even when I do
public speaking I say oh they're you
Brian Grazer Ted or whatever they might
say but I goes I'm I always say I'm in
the feelings business not a movie
producer so I'm just I'm in the feelings
business because I feel like that's what
we want out of a cinematic experience
for me sure the movies I'm interested in
doing or TV shows that so because I I
grew up loving those movies of the 70s
and I'm captivated by things that move
me emotionally and elevate me emotion so
you make these phone calls and your
conversations so your range basically a
podcast that no one's listening to
exactly I never thought of it in those
words that is really funny you should
probably record them I step so I've done
it for say 35 years really and you
didn't record any of them the first 15
years nothing I didn't write not really
notes either and then the second 10
years that was you know I would say 15
was nothing I just did it because I felt
like that could inhibit somebody or I
felt like I was trying to do these sort
of down low in a way like I didn't want
to commodify them you know I can just
realize my conversations right and I had
friends go like oh can we be part of it
and I tried it once with a couple other
guys it during my thing and it
fractionalized
are my attention yeah and it it what I
found the great thing about the
conversations the one-on-one with no one
else in the room which that's all I do
again I've tried it different ways is it
it it create your do what you're trying
to do I'm trying to do is like create
the best date that Isaac Asimov
Everett had or or you know or I mean
have so many people you know just
Margaret Thatcher I'm trying to like I'm
trying to be have no idea of time and
space and I want them to have no idea of
time and space and because that is like
your best date yeah and I always think
like Mont what is my best date with a
girl at my very from me Brian cuz I my
best date is I'm not even thinking about
time and it's just becomes almost like a
biochemical event it's just things are
evolving yeah and I felt like I could do
this with noble with many Nobel
laureates with Sheldon Glasgow who
converted the four forces of days of
nature to three and I brought his name
up because well first of all I knew that
your show you could you could do
whatever you want and and with Sheldon
Glasgow it's like I usually do an hour
or two hours but I hung out with this
guy shut up my whole day down for six
hours
Wow just because I was so captivated by
him and he talked about multiple
subjects so basically I always got
somebody that I'm really wanting to meet
and it takes a year at least
or sometimes year to organize this to
get them to say yes or to be in the same
city or be willing to say yes and week
fly to New York or some other place it
sounds like you have figured out the
benefit that I've experienced from
having podcasts and having these kind of
conversations one-on-one conversations
but you did it just for your own
personal edification yeah yeah it's it's
kind of amazing but it's I I have gotten
more out of talking to people like this
and it's it made me grow more as a
person and make made me understand more
about communication and how to talk to
people than anything I've ever done in
my whole life because yeah you don't
normally have this completely unfilled
it's one of the reasons why I like
headsets as well because it locks you in
it's like you're your volume of you
talking is the same level in my years as
it is in your ears we're all on this one
it's not like
there's distance between us or in each
other's ears and we're talking there's
no phones there's no nothing we're
sitting across from each other how would
I ever organize this I thought about
that with so many different people that
I've had a chance to talk to like how
would I ever get Sean Carroll the
astrophysicist says to sit down and just
talk to me for three hours you had to
cultivate him I would never get him to
do that no I would never get him to hate
let's put headphones on and you just
tell me about stuff like explain to me
about no one no one would ever do that
because of this thing called the podcast
because I can share it with all the
other people that are listening I've had
this chance to have these kind of
conversations and it sounds like you've
done the same thing but without an
audience it's really brilliant it's a
brilliant way that you figured out that
this is a great way to to to expand your
own understanding of people being one on
one with these brilliant folks yes
exactly and and and maybe you'd do this
too but I've found I mean I do meet a
lot of people I reach out to meet people
that are you know expert it's many
different things that I that I don't do
of course but sometimes I just become
really motivated just to meet somebody
because they're so uniquely committed to
something yeah they're so obsessed yes
and I've even found that I've learned a
lot from uber drivers and baristas and
stuff for you so III but I do reach out
to me you know people that have really
had a very intense committed to a really
intense journey and often have triumphed
and that's very contagious yeah they're
kind of energy that those people look
sooo yeah it is it's inspirational yeah
isn't it yeah yeah because like even who
is that Josh you might know this guy
Josh wait Nick yeah okay
the guy that was the subject of
searching for bobby fisher' chess master
the chess master now is like Marshall
Marshall exactly and he was able to like
succeed in both templates or formats
yeah you do we say his last name
right uh wait kins so it's wait I don't
know it's wait Nick he's uh he's a
student under marcelo garcia exactly
yeah one of the ball down that's right
yeah he's very proud very proud of that
he should be he's amazing yeah he's he's
excellent and Josh is uh wait yeah wait
skin
oh wait skin you ever write thank you
very much want to get right but uh
brilliant brilliant guy and and he's
amazing on have you ever heard him on
Tim Ferriss pocket I did accent yeah
excellent episode I think he's done more
than one episode in fact yeah so your
chance with him what were you saying no
I just thought like this guy he's so
committed to excellence like it's just
not and it made me like as you were just
saying made me think about that as a
premise like just complete commitment to
excellence yeah because I don't really
think of it you know that you know these
sort of creative puzzles that way you
know what creative puzzle would be like
you know a movie or a TV show or a
documentary and you know I could go on
and but you okay jay-z asked me because
I knew jay-z because he was very
obsessed with wanting to do the
soundtrack to a movie called American
Gangster which I produced great movie
love that movie did you oh great thanks
I like that one a lot too but so and I
said as much you know as a as impressed
as I am with jay-z and his level of you
know mastery himself
I said look we've already done the
entire score I mean you can't do it it's
been done he said well look I feel a
kinship to Frank Lucas who was played by
Denzel Washington because it ends up
being a drug dealer like the biggest
heroin dealer in America at the time and
head of like his own mafia that he
creates and so anyway the bottom line is
he feels this kinship to him he wants to
do this he's very dedicated I say it's
already done as much as you know
superstar
how great you are and he said look I
will do a second album I don't have to
be the primary album that's on the
screen I'll do a second album and I said
but I only have three weeks he goes I
will do the whole thing in three weeks
and he did it whoa and I went and saw
him he did the singing he did the
writing he did he engineered it he did
every single thing so the guy is the
king of hip-hop
he goes to work and I was really blown
away because he still you know how he
has that grit in him and and it turned
out to be like for real hip-hop lovers
they really liked this album I guess it
was
everybody loves everything he does
though jay-z put out something that was
shit he doesn't really yeah he's kind of
brilliant actually
he's yeah he doesn't he's a brilliant
marketer he's when he said he says
things that are very insightful so he
wanted to do he's after that he we got
to know each other and then he said hey
I'm gonna do I'm gonna I want to do a
festival a festival with 24 22 different
artists and all different types and this
can be in love park and it's called
we're calling it made in America would
you produce it and and I said yeah and I
knew that Ron Howard could get a chance
at directing it and I thought it would
be really good for Rhonda me around
jay-z that's a good thing for him it's a
good he's got a good aura and the right
one for Ron and I thought well so we
joined him I said what is this about you
know what's the premise and he said it's
about democratization of of music itself
there's no record stores anymore and and
the walls are down you could you know
you can get you know there's the
crossover between hip hop and you know
trance music and all that stuff so and I
thought that was kind of cool and then I
said if you ever seen this movie called
because it didn't have a story that this
concert that she ever see Amadeus he
goes I never seen Amadeus and I said
well it's about genius and he
asked about it he goes that's what the
premise of this will be and he
immediately thought had this idea that
it should be every artist every human
being has a little bit of genius in them
and he made it very relatable and that
became the thesis of what this
documentary became and he only had that
like a week before we were shooting so
it was kind of remarkable that's pretty
remarkable so you've been doing this for
35 years and you haven't recorded any of
these these conversations you've had
with people okay
stay in the last 10 years I've said I've
recorded some and sometimes I do face
times and they allow me to like Admiral
William McRaven who I really wanted to
meet you know that Navy the Navy SEAL
that created SEAL Team six and just
recently sort of but doesn't speak out
publicly but had a point of view about
the president and the whole Oval Office
and stuff like that and and he's he's a
really amazing guy but I said can i
FaceTime you because that was the only
way so if somebody can't meet with me I
now say would you Skype with me or
FaceTime at the time I started there
weren't that did the tool didn't exist
right so you would fly to them I just
lie to them his conversation yeah that's
so amazing you've had this commitment to
do this I have this acuity I do I feel
it's it really am yeah
it's important to my life and I just
it's like a hobby that you're completely
committed to doing and it's it's for me
I'm a person that gets better I can get
better all the time I'm open every
minute of every day for self-improvement
like if you said Brian did you think if
you gave me a note about this experience
or something and you said you know
you're probably better if you did it
this way I I if I could integrate it or
assimilate it I would then do it good
for you that's a beautiful attitude well
I know how fallible I am oh yeah all of
us if you're human if you think yeah
yeah it's just that's part of being
yeah yeah so you embrace that ourselves
too oh yeah yeah yeah yeah you have to
constantly seeking self-improvement yeah
yeah they did the big part the big
problem is holding yourself prisoner to
the mistakes of the past don't ya
and and just constantly looking to get
better at anything you're trying to do
yeah and I think having these kind of
conversations like you're talking about
will make you a better more thoughtful
person - yes because it gives you a
level of communication with human beings
that it just it's very rare in this
world very rare that you get to sit down
across from someone and sometimes I have
these conversations with people where
there's no one around like you know the
back bar at the Comedy Store
sitting down with a buddy and we'll just
sit there no one's around just he and I
will just shoot the shit for an hour and
a half two hours no one around just
talking and like those those are rare
moments where you're not distracted or
you could just talk about things you
have ideas and someone bring something
up and you consider it and then you add
your own thing and then they consider
that and then you just go back and forth
and you get a better understanding of
each other yeah I agree with you I it's
amazing that you're able to do it and
get away with yeah yeah I mean see we're
both sounds like open-minded to if it's
long as were kind of disrupting our
comfort zone I think and and being
open-minded to that you're you're then
being open-minded to like the value of
human error yes yes
oh yeah the value of human error that's
a great way of putting it because it's
sometimes some of the it's not exactly
human error but human error for sure but
you know some it's often the thing you
failed at or the ugly thing that
happened and that sticks in your head
and your makes a difference in your life
makes you better fuel for improved yeah
feel free of them yeah the feeling that
you get when you fail up things is very
valuable because even though it sucks
and it feels terrible it does force you
to sort of recommit and reconsider
first of all reconsider the consequences
for failure the feeling that you get
when things don't go well which is a
terrible feeling and then it also makes
you aware of the commitment that's
necessary to not fail to do well at
things yes exact
yeah it's enlightening chore yeah
because sometimes you think that's as
far as as far even if you feel like you
have you've accrued all the facts you've
been able sometimes you don't know that
there's that going back to Josh there's
this extra level of excellence that
exists there there's still more room to
go and you realize oh I could fill in
those inches they can be filled in yeah
yeah well something like what he did
chess and also jiu-jitsu there's so many
levels to it there's it's such a
multi-faceted discipline there's so many
different possible moves with both
activities chess and jiu-jitsu yeah and
you just see there's the physical
element as well which is a big part of
it physical fitness and then also mental
conditioning and your ability to stay on
task even though your body is physically
exhausted and then the discipline to
make sure that your body is conditioned
so that it doesn't get physically
exhausted as quickly or as easily right
yeah I mean there that's a very
intellectual discipline that people
don't consider they think of physical
things as being like meathead things or
grunt things there is actually a lot of
mental stress and Metin and strength
that's involved in discipline that you
you you need to have in order to get
your body into a position you know where
it can perform like Josh's can on the
Manns yeah it's very very hard mentally
to do that because you you have to have
all these battles where you want to quit
you want to give up early we're going to
take a break you want to rest you don't
want to you don't want to go today but
you know you should you know all those
things must be overcome in order to
achieve the level of excellence that
he's achieved yeah and probably because
you've done this yourself so you know
what that feels like when you use that
when you said you don't want to get
exhausted or get yeah you that probably
takes tremendous amount of focus because
you get exhausted when you're nervous
right because you your heart beats
faster you breathe less air blah blah
that's when you know in like swim and
surfing or something that's when you can
choke you know sure yeah yeah that's
when you run out of air cuz you're so
nervous and you're scrambling around
but it's the guys that are relaxed like
you were like outside you have Laird
Hamilton mm-hmm he's so trained to be
able to be under the water for I don't
know how long he can do it yeah he's
very very awesome to that kind of it and
it doesn't freak him out he goes okay
there's a very good chance I'm gonna get
caught in the impact zone I'm gonna be
taken under hmm and he doesn't freak out
if he freaked out it would be a problem
yeah I mean that's his business and
death yeah business is riding the
biggest waves yeah yeah you got to be
able to keep it together when that water
wall comes crashing down in your head
yeah so I have to imagine it's a
different thing but in you know in
jiu-jitsu or fighting that you've done
which I think you still do jiu-jitsu
Craig yeah that those things those
factors they're just different
environment you don't necessarily get
nervous what did you just do that much
unless you're in a competition but what
you do get is exhausted it's very
physically demanding yeah bet you get
very very tired and you really should
the more conditioned you are physically
like the more strength and conditioning
routines you you you go through the more
your body is in shape the more you can
perform it's sort of like racing right
with a race car but you can actually add
horsepower to the racecar through
discipline and you can add better tires
and you can add a more supple suspension
through thought and activity really yeah
through yoga and different kinds of
training it's like you know like you're
involved in this thing that's a physical
thing but it's also a mental thing in
racing no no in what you in jiu-jitsu
yeah like your body is the race car yeah
right got strength and conditioning yes
you could actually add your hires yes
actually a cigarette again yeah yeah I
get it could do more yeah that makes so
much sense yeah and through repetitive
drills you actually can hone your nur
your your your your neuromuscular system
to the point where these grooves are cut
so you know exactly how to turn and how
to move when you're moving and you're
doing jujitsu and everything sort of
goes and flows automatically and that
that requires extreme amounts of
discipline yeah bet that yeah
and I'm just imagining it as you say it
because I don't know that much about you
Jitsu I've gone to some fight you know
some fights with a friend of mine are
Emmanuel oh yeah
one's the UFC the Yossi guy yeah so he's
a really good friend and my daughter's
obsessed with she's obsessed with
martial arts jujitsu she trains mm-hmm
so what she does for a living but she
trains and she loves the community of
people yes she got injured pretty
seriously injured and then she she
didn't want to be indulgent but I said
look just I'll pay for you to start back
early and you can just do one on ones
which cuz she didn't want to well how'd
she injure herself she got like choked
off from the back I don't know how that
had it her neck
yeah created a stroke and whoa yeah it
multiple strokes in her brain but it
didn't affect any part of her
intellectual capacity but it was really
pretty it was very serious she so she
got caught in a rear naked choke yeah
that's right yes and the chicken I don't
give her multiple strokes I've heard of
that before
I will let you I will email you exactly
her what happened he was due but she got
through it and even went fast to
training again she goes back to training
she is my phone l showed you later
I think multiple strokes they'll be like
alright that's a wrap we tried that she
just loves it and she now you know
people are little she does one-on-one so
they don't do that move mm-hmm whatever
that move would be again I'll get all
the information and just for your own
curiosity I send it to but she's back in
it she loves it and she's just fully
recovered she's fully recovered and did
it have any she had a little nerve
damage which I'm weird honestly she had
a little nerve damage that that is now
in her foot so periodically her foot
will become completely black and blue
whoa I know so but she'll get through it
cuz she's really strong meant mentally
she's
she wasn't always that way but but we've
you know my wife and I've sort of helped
her with tough love like you can do it
you know that kind of Ashmore because
she's she's a she's a therapist she's a
you know she's a psycho
she'd her name is sage grazer on the Joe
Rogan show I mean everyone loves her
kids right and so that's so that's what
she does she's an actual therapist with
the you know like patients well I'm glad
to hear that she recovered from now if
she heard of anybody having a stroke
from that before that must be terrifying
yeah it was so back to these
conversations yes you've had over these
35 years the ones that you've recorded
what have you done with them you just
you're holding on to them I just keep
keep them people get so mad at me yeah
because I tell everybody they should do
a podcast how mad do people get at me
okay I think that you definitely should
well I should because I like doing this
so much I just I really probably like
you I'm just super interested in people
yes I'm curious really curious part of
the title of your book yeah so in the
kitna so that was so curious mind mm-hmm
I realized that cheese I've done 35
years of these at that time I might have
been 30 and my kids my four kids don't
really know what I'm doing you know like
I'm really spending a lot of time
hustling to get Edward Teller to meet me
took a year and a half two years or
Daryl gates it was the craziest meeting
of all time Daryl gates the at least
geez Wow
well how was that the craziest okay I'll
give it to you very quick I'll give it
to you okay so I really thought this guy
he was you know one he's one of the most
well known and most accomplished
police chief's in America I think there
are three of them and he was one of the
three in a century and and then Daryl
gates
I knew created was one of the creators
the fundamental curator of SWAT which
was bringing paramilitary tactics to the
LA Police Department he started
as a bright-eyed strong-minded clean-cut
guy working for the police department
and because he was sharp he was the
driver to the police chief which was
chief Parker and then chief Parker the
LA there was a riot called the Watts
riot not the LA riots but the Watts riot
and the police went in and they were not
qualified to be in that situation and
they've kind of failed at and they felt
they failed at it and Daryl gates was
liked by the Chiefs side the entire time
and he kind of vowed to himself I'm not
gonna let that happen again and when he
had the opportunity because he became
later police chief and I'm not not much
later became police chief of Los Angeles
Police Department he instituted SWAT and
other you know paramilitary tactics and
a mind discipline that was pretty um you
know it was like creating you know like
martial law people would argue and and
then we went that kind of produced an
environment that I think many think in
my eyes I think myself helped an
environment that caused the LA riots
because there was a lot of inequity I
think human inequity felt I know I'm
getting this again a political and you
should tell me what your point of view
please I'm on the LA riots yeah well I'm
I moved here after that okay I wasn't
here while that was going down right it
was pretty intense yeah and the LA riots
were a direct response to the Rodney
King trial yes exactly and yeah that was
a crazy time I mean the reaction first
of all the reaction to the video the the
video was horrible watching Rodney King
getting beaten like that and then you
also heard that they had been on the
high speed pursuit with him and that
there was more to that video like that
was yes end of their altercation
apparently there's much more physical
altercation before that video maybe if
someone saw the full thing they would
understand well okay you're dealing with
a wild person who's on PCP and these
cops are doing everything they can to
detain him yeah but there's a distrust
of the police in
these communities in the first place
because they had seen so much police
brutality right so that reaction that
riot was not just because of that one
graduation yeah it was an accumulation
of different events yes different
interactions that people have had with
abuses of buildings hot yeah yeah you
know and then the whole rampart unit and
there was there was so much corruption
there's a lot of shit going down yes
during that time so all that just oh
yeah all that exploded exploded and so
that the thing about this story is
they're saying about I spent I I took I
got a meeting with Daryl gates it was
ten months on the book ten months Wow
and ironically the day of my meeting
with him was the day of the LA riots so
I thought and it already happened 2,000
buildings on fire and everything and my
office gets a phone call from Daryl
gates office confirming my meeting with
him I'm thinking oh my god Parker center
is under siege you know it's like the
whole city is under siege he still
wanted to keep the meeting at a meeting
that was on the books for ten months I
thought that's really crazy
so I went down I had a guy drive me and
I went down and they zigzag through like
a security clearance thing where Cano
other cars could get through that was
really bizarre you know like we see this
now often but they initiated this this
kind of maze that the car would go
through I get to the I get to the I'm
get to the front door a couple of police
chiefs of police officers escort me in
they put me in a room they they died Joe
guys they didn't give me a cavity search
but just about everything but you know
took my clothes off did everything they
really yeah I did they think that you
just a scrawny little guy movies I don't
know that you would go rogue no I know
there's like that there's no evidence
over sure
so and then I got upstairs and he is
sitting so calmly he'd already ordered
two tuna fish sandwiches very uh you
know utility you know very utilitarian
the sandwiches and we had the potato
chips and he said you want an iced tea I
I couldn't even swallow I couldn't eat
my food because it was so shocked by the
whole thing that he had so much he was
impervious to everything that was going
down and the City Council was on his TV
and on the TV out there and you know
guys a police officer running and go
chief you're on TV right now and they're
yelling and he goes he says to me and to
them ah this is nothing they'll never
get me out of here he had so much hubris
it was it was it was amazing and I
thought what and he's so calm about it
and of course they did they did get him
out I think the next day actually
because the City Council was really at
very liberal guys on that board people
on that board rather and it's it's a
long insane story but I had my meeting
lunch meeting was the meeting normal
like an hour you know it was a full hour
so you just have lunch and just pick his
brain and yeah just have lunch and ask
questions you know and try to act not be
nervous or upset about the end what's
going on the environment and the TV's
flashing you know like archival footage
that they shot days before you know or
the day of and buildings on fire and the
Korean Koreans shop Market somebody
getting killed and all that stuff they
were showing on television and he he was
just kind of matter-of-fact like this is
just what's going down as time will just
pass Wow I know it was crazy well it
sounds like someone designed for the job
so I couldn't record that one obviously
but so so anyway I did think that my
kids should know about all this stuff
and and actually Charlie Rose of all
people said you should write a book and
so it got on my mind I mentioned it to a
couple people they say oh yes you write
a book and so then I thought okay I'll
write a book because I'm gonna write
notes on this anyway these 35 years for
my kids so that when I pass they'll have
this
they'll know this was a very big part of
my life beyond my career but my life and
so that's what the first book is about
it synthesizes many of the important
one-on-one conversations I had over the
30 years and then it connects the the
synthesis of those stories to narrative
storytelling for example in 1985 1984 I
met sting you know the lead singer the
police because I thought how he'd be
fascinating to meet because he was like
a schoolteacher in England and now he's
like a rock star I just thought that's
kind of an interesting transition like
the biggest one of the biggest rock
stars I meet him I get him to say yes
wasn't horribly hard and then a year
after I met with him
he calls up in 1985 and he says I'm
having a barbecue at my house I think
some interesting people will be here and
that was right after the amnesty tour
and he took a woman named Veronica de
negra in 1985 along with other superstar
she wasn't a superstar she was a held in
print a Chilean prison and tortured
every single day of her life for 18
months and she went on the embassy tour
only for a few days as evidence of
somebody that can survive you know like
she was hopeful you know still like most
people don't survive torture either from
the torture itself or they sadly they
commit suicide because they're they're
just so much trauma so much PTSD so it's
just so she survives I meet her and I
say how do you survive and she tells me
that while she's being she creates a
story that she's living in the entire
time so there's reality and then there's
an alternate reality the alternate
reality is the story that she creates
that she can live in that alleviate some
of the pain and the unpredictable pain
of torture so now that's pretty
fascinating to me and I really sat with
those those insights now many things
happened after that that I was able to
use that like I became when I was stuck
on a beautiful mind because it wasn't
cinematic
I thought well how can I make it
cinematic and I thought Veronica did a
great she lived in an alternate reality
well that's exactly involuntarily what a
schizophrenic has to do they live in
alternate realities so in the movie A
Beautiful Mind to make it really
compelling we started at an alternate
reality and made it a thriller and
realized oh my god there's this epiphany
and you realize that was not even
reality right and and that's what blew
people's minds and that's why the movie
kind of worked because it was it drew
you in so deeply into this character
that it became like the subjective
experience that every audience every
audience member could feel like the pain
of that and the insanity of what that
must feel like
that was another brilliant movie when
you say make it cinematic what do you
mean by that exactly well Ron and I
realized that Ron Howard who directed it
and won an Oscar and he we realized that
in order to make it really interesting
you have to see you have to understand
the mind of a schizophrenic so therefore
you have to see somebody's mind mm-hmm
how do you see somebody's mind other
than just graphically you know or you
know like through graphic design and and
without that's not very interesting you
know like the insertion of graphic
design or voice-over narration that
makes it kind of a documentary so but we
thought like but if you could if you
could have an entire story kind of with
the military and paranoia and all that
that's exactly one of the dimensions or
realities of a schizophrenic smight so
you get to film it with other actors and
other people and that's that was that's
why I mean when I say cinematic so
basically when you're seeing the 25
minutes of living in this alternate
reality with Ed Harris and all that
stuff craziness it blows your mind as an
audience and then you reflect later like
wow that wasn't even real and wow that
guy is that guy really going to come
back and you know you may
get seamlessly cinematic with the rest
of the narrative him of him trained to
cope with schizophrenia itself it
becomes the merging of an alternate
reality and actual reality and the
actual reality is when he's you watch
him in that level of pain and just
trying to survive
you know like cope with meds and the
wife and and then then we we we found
the way to make it you know kind of work
triumphantly because it was love that
was the most powerful force it was that
one person decided to stay with this
other one person the wife Alicia stay
with John Nash that's so interesting
that you pulled that from that woman's
experience exist surviving torture I
credit her for that well always because
she yeah so so that's so I found that
all of these insights you know that
we're referring to the ones that you
have when you're you know behind just
getting off stage you realize why I
could talk to my buddies or this new guy
for a minute those random moments that
you get to talk to somebody can often
produce a story or an insight an
emotional insight that you can transport
to something else you know that I found
that all these conversations that I was
having were like kind of like I see
these stars behind you they were like
stars or a constellation of dots you
know of and and that you just have faced
it they somehow inform you and make you
better and smarter and that they connect
someday well it's so insightful that you
look at these conversations that way
because I mean I really haven't felt
that affect on me personally over doing
this but the fact that you've like
sought it out just as an education just
as something that expands you because we
really are a combination or an
accumulation of all of our experiences
and the more experiences you can have
even if it doesn't feel tangible in that
moment it broadens your perspective it
broadens yeah well I think for you as
well because you still do stand-up we
were talking about that some of them
might works in my office saw you the
other night
remembered who she was she goes he won't
remember me and you did she used to be
on kill Tony kill Tony is a great
podcast that my friend Brian Redman and
Tony Hinchcliffe do and this podcast
involves comedians going up and doing
one minute of material in front of these
professional comics and the professional
comics either say hey that was great or
they shit all over it or everybody makes
fun there's a band it's a bunch of chaos
and it's all done in front of a live
crowd and the nessa was on it for quite
a while Wow okay that's good yeah she
tries hard I know that I mean she went
hard best yeah but as I saying like when
I watched you do stand-up because I made
a point to catch up on it you're really
really good and you're telling I'm
watching you tell stories that are
comedic story you make them comedic and
I could I think I can tell and you tell
me if I'm wrong but sometimes you don't
know all the answers to that story and I
see that you're grabbing things that
lived in that you experiences or
insights that lived in the environment
that you've have or had because I
watched a couple of scenes very closely
and I know you didn't have it figured
out and you got the bigger laugh from
the thing that you pulled from someplace
I thought this earlier just a really
good actor okay there's a little bit of
recreating that yeah when you're doing
that in stand-up but often times that
it's a combination of all those things
it's a combination of actually
improvising in the moment and figuring
it out in the moment and then figuring
out in the moment and recreating it
again yeah and recreating it again the
same way you did before but being in the
moment and and being able to bring it in
to someone's attention as if you're
recreating it or give them the feeling
that it's being recreated so that they
can they can experience it thinking it
can so when that's what stand-up is like
there's revelations that you repeat
right there's a there's a moment you
know and then I'm like wait what the
fuck
is that about but you have to be able to
recreate that oh yeah over yeah even
though like a beginner's mind I have to
yeah like it's brand-new values right
right and so that is how you're thinking
for the people and in the sense yes say
if you go to see a great comic like Bill
burr right and you're sitting in the
audience and Bill's on stage you're
allowing him to think for you in a way
right like he's taking you on a journey
so it has he's pointing left and right
and yeah we're going straight and you're
you're just going along with it this is
the rock like I'm letting him take over
the reins of my attention in my mind
yeah yeah so you it's a there's a craft
to that yeah you're the passenger he's
the driver in the Formula One car yes
and so any great comic whether it's
Chris Rock or Dave Chappelle or figure
whoever it is yeah when they're on stage
and they're killing you are allowing
them to think for you yeah oh that's
interesting
so I love it so they're trying to take
you on an organic journey of
understanding whatever the fuck they're
talking about yeah explaining it to you
in a way that's gonna like resonate like
this is how you would know that are
loving this is how you but and I'm like
Jolla who the fuck brought the baby
moment yeah yeah it has to feel like
you're really realizing that somebody
brought a fucking baby to a gun range or
whatever it is whenever you joking
around it's funny right yeah yeah so so
it is these conversations are are really
kind of valuable on so many levels they
yeah they're not like like sometimes
people will go people sometimes just
want to get to the end you know like how
do I make the money you know but it's
the the journey is really valuable you
know sure yeah
there's a lot of people that get into
podcast specifically because of that
they think there's money in podcasts
like how do you make money in podcast
yeah yeah I've had that conversation I'm
like well make a good podcast that
people like yeah but then you got a
simple yeah that's why I do that is to
actually enjoy doing podcasts right
that's really the best way yeah and then
people like you also have to do it over
a long enough period of time where
people you know like one person tells
another person tells one thing that I've
never
done with this podcast I've never
advertised it it's in the sense that I
never did anything to make it grow and
there I just did it I just kept doing it
I never did anything like I never took
out ads I never went on shows to promote
it I never did anything to promote it I
just did it
mm-hmm and I did that on purpose because
I wanted to never have any thought and
all about growing it I only want to
think about doing the best that I can
right make it a commercial experience it
makes it became that it came to this but
even while it's become that I haven't
changed I've changed how I do it because
I got better at it and because I became
a different person as I've gone through
my own personal evolution but I don't
change my thought on it which is just do
it
just enjoy it and do it and do the best
I can and try whoever I'm talking to try
to connect with them you know and some
people like you I'm connecting with
really easily it's okay that's great I
enjoy its conversation it's great it's
easy okay then some people it's like a
little bit of pulling teeth you know
some people it's harder it's you're
doing heavy lifting yeah but still
enjoyable yeah of it it's like when it's
heavy lifting it's like okay how do I
solve this yeah I totally know you're
talking about
I had this female rapper in my house
like really big and I'm good good at
like creating conversation it wasn't
almost impossible freaking out oh my god
I'd like to hear that one yeah yeah and
then finally you hit something no
finally a hits to thing or something
finally two things one thing was she
liked to talk about was gonna reveal who
it is and I ended up liking her so much
she liked to talk about stripping and
prostitution okay I know those and and
she's like she's got a master's class on
this like she's genius okay
so that that she could do but it took a
long time to get there hmm like really a
lot of very polite to me but kind of
looking around a lot and then
comfortable with you well just not
knowing that we weren't really
and then she's very Street and then what
she hit it yes I thought it was really
funny and how she diagnosed the street
that thing wow she's like a scientist in
this hair oh yeah well the hustlers are
people that are you know hustling so she
was really good then then she and her
husband decided they're really
interested in some art that I had on the
wall and that produced more interest in
more art and then she they wanted to
know like why is this worth so much
money well house house pricing work
I said well dealers you go what do you
mean by dealers I go what's a diva so I
explained what dealers were like Larry
Gagosian kind of sensed the market what
does that mean and then so then I then
they were very interested in that Wow so
then it then it got to be kind of longer
and then I had to go someplace it worked
out but it worked out really well it
worked out with and so to your point it
was really really hard to figure out
this puzzle and then we act I
accidentally cracked that puzzle and
that was really gratifying and it was
good enough that I'm talking about it on
your show so it was memorable for sure
so it elevated your people skills and
assets you did yes I did yes I did and
you learned about pimps and hos and
pricing and pricing in that field you
know in that field that feel like
there's a field it's just a suppressed
field yeah she was really mad about the
idea of a pimp like why would anyone
give a pimp money I understand I don't
get it yeah okay so yeah but yes
protection all right yeah I guess she
wasn't acknowledging that his particular
so so there's that and and so the other
book I wrote because this kind of ties
in you know this is kind of interesting
because you asked actually so what
happened is in my house there was a new
person that started working on our you
know like our staff at home kind of
thing and you know like you know working
on the house
staff kind of thing I don't have like
I'm not like Butler's I'm not gonna what
do you mean by how staff just like we
have a we have people that you know
House keepers you know then either cook
or they clean or they but it's a team I
have a team okay there's it th yeah but
I don't want to mislead you and make you
think like I'm living in like you know
it's not this is a picture and I'm
picturing the dude with a napkin no
please don't
yeah it's not bad I'm glad you pointed
that out and then he gives you a top hat
no yeah yeah yeah gets my texts ready
every day to the rolls-royce and it's a
rose petals yeah yeah Thurston Howell no
yeah no is that that it just it's just
like an organized place so get it you're
ballin talk something
and so she apparently should work that's
funny so so apparently she worked at our
house for like almost three months and
my wife's she says to my wife I really
like Brian a lot and my wife said we'll
see if you talk too much she said well I
haven't talked him very much but every
time he speaks to me he always looks me
directly in my eyes and it makes me feel
like a human being and I thought of the
simplicity of that I thought wow just by
looking at somebody directly in the eyes
with real not looking behind them are
you just looking at them it immediately
is an equalizer it says we're both equal
we're words both species on this plant
the same species on this and it makes me
feel like a human being gives me dignity
mmm and then I thought that's pretty
powerful I mean this is only like two
years ago and then I retrofitted back
all of those conversations I was
alluding to like 35 years of every week
a curiosity conversation and I thought
well the only reason these conversations
were good is I've must have been really
looking at these people in the eyes and
we were really dialed in otherwise they
wouldn't
these private things or these insights
they wouldn't share their heart with me
if they didn't feel I was present with
them right and so that became kind of
the thesis of this book and that's why
it's just called face to face the art of
human connection because then I set all
of this I thought to myself we're living
right now in the loneliest deck the
loneliest time you know in our
generation it's like an epidemic of
loneliness is that it is actually that
all statistics point Millennials will
admit that one quart of well one quarter
of them will admit that they're
incredibly lonely like where they can't
almost cope with their loneliness what
do you think that's digital lives
I think it's digital lives for sure cuz
they don't they're not even used to
talking now because everything is a text
and you know with kids and I have a 16
year old kid he was just turned 16 they
text each other when they're in the same
room mm-hm they're sitting there
watching Netflix and they're what
texting each other like who you texting
him to Johnny
John Johnny's right there talk to him
yeah yeah so here is weird and this like
dating you know that's why these kids
they just ghost girls or ghost guys like
just vaporized because they don't have
feelings they don't when you don't talk
to people yeah because you're really out
there you're feeling when you're doing
you're feeling people all the time when
you feel people you have empathy you
feel connealy lings right yeah for sure
and when you feel people's feelings you
try not to hurt their feelings right
yeah yeah yeah when you're actually in
the presence of yeah instead of
digitally and when you feel people's
feelings and you meet them and demystify
whatever you think you heard about them
you tend to like them more for the most
part and you tend to love as opposed to
have war you know so it it really is
important in our in our lives from
multiple levels like just looking at
people and going out of your way to
connect yeah
no I agree that's what this books about
basically and doing that reaffirms it in
yourself it does it
exactly it reaffirms it myself because
it right it's like a tool you're right
exactly you get it
beyond get it but it's like it I learn
off of it every day because I'm not
perfect but I make sure that when I get
into elevators I I practice what I
preach I put my phone away I don't go in
the elevator and just look at my phone I
look at people all right I'm just cool I
can relax you know yeah and then often
you make just you make people feel
better if you're actually looking at for
sure yeah sure I've the last week I put
a 1 hour limit on my phone use oh wow
yeah I'll put a 1 hour limit on whether
whether it's a birthday yeah okay yeah
yeah
apps whatever yeah never amusing and
thought about using the foot like
thought about looking at the phone
aimlessly yeah she's not you know I've
got this thing now that I'm doing where
I just grab my phone I go no no and then
I put it away
I just because people are really really
addicted to film they're really addicted
and you don't realize until you look at
that screen time yeah that reading that
you get at the end of the day you like
five hours
I'm sure I'm in that maybe four yeah but
this that digital connection the
connection to you're missing you're
missing this connection to other people
and they're also there's a certain
amount of anxiety attached to it where
people are constantly checking their
social media and checking checking their
their emails and their mentions and in
going back and forth with this and that
looking at this and that and it's like
you're not in the real world you're only
living on this little tiny device it's a
little rectangular yes it's weird yeah
and it contributes to loneliness and
disconnection and unhappiness and
happiness yeah yeah and I don't know
what the solution is other than
abstinence yeah other than getting
putting them away well at some point I
think we're going I have this feeling
that the privileged people or sensitive
I don't want to say it that way I think
it could be the most scarce and valued
commodity is being present with human
beings yes
it's like you know the cool kids they do
you know they they're listening to
vinyls right well I think the people
that are good at it are rare the people
that like what you've done you've
practiced this idea of sitting down and
talking to people on a regular basis
looking them in the eye and having
meaningful conversations
that's a you've taken you've made a
choice you've a concerted effort to do
that and that's not common and most
people don't have good people skills
I mean I've learned how to not interrupt
people I've learned how to not talk so
much I've learned how to listen I've
learned how to interact and I'm also
learned when people are not good at it
you know some people you're talking to
them and they're not even listening to
you they're just waiting for their turn
to talk yes there's a couple of guys I
know that do that it's frustrating it is
frustrating
yeah yeah well cuz you kind of go what's
the hole what's the point is it yeah
we're not connected we're not like we
both like or I'm sure I'm sure you've
meet people that will ask you three
questions basically at the same time
like bam bam and you're trying to answer
the first question then you realize now
we're sharp enough to know that they
don't really want to know the answer
yeah they're just just on adderall
firing questions about this guy's blue I
know it's blue I just had lunch with one
of my funniest close friends his name is
Jimmy Iovine and he's a music producer
music producer and he and Drake created
this beats and we have known each other
like oh I guess 30 years we were out of
this restaurant called wanting to say
it's a Greek restaurant Beverly Hills
and our waiter Jimmy goes that dudes on
adderall because he was like I mean like
he'd just I said it's too much Tony
Robbins from he said no it's adderall
yeah but he was just like you couldn't
finish his sentence or we said okay we
think we know we want we're gonna have
the branzino and he rattled off like ten
dish as we go we realized we couldn't
stop him mmm we knew what we said what
we wanted right he didn't want to hear
he wanted to do the other nine
yeah so that's a common thing today
incredibly common there's a lot of
people on speed a lot and the doctors
are just actually on speed
that's what adderall is yeah so you
think people are really that's the thing
I do I don't know that much about legal
speed the adderall's legal speed
prescribed by a doctor if you went to a
doctor right now you went to the right
doc yes and sad I just feel listless I'm
having a hard time connecting I'm having
a hard time getting motivated oh I got
the thing for your barn Wow here you go
and you'd be like fucking kicking ass
there's a lot of other people that are
slacking there are losers this guy's a
loser that guy's a loser that is that's
really it isn't that the hetero mindset
that is my adderall mindset it's
basically a low-level meth mindset yes
beat its agenda yeah exactly thing just
talking and it's almost like assaultive
yeah well you can get productive you can
get a lot of done with that but yeah
it's just there's a lack of connection
yeah there it's not really real as well
yeah yeah it's a weird sort of vibe that
I'm gonna look for it and I'm gonna
prospect for you'll find it it's mining
for gold
I didn't realize there's gold in the
hills you go prospecting for people that
have a bedroom
you better have a large cargo train I
gotta check it out it was funny when he
said it and I thought he goes no no I'm
this is really true like what you would
say to me right now
guys no no this guy he's actually on it
and I go yeah really and he says yeah
how does a guy become that guy he
literally was on that table
a lot of writers a lot of journalists
yes a lot of journalists a lot of people
that have two deadlines and they have to
push and they've run out of energy a lot
of them are on adderall it's extremely
extremely common extremely common with
very productive people very ambitious
people business people people that do a
lot of meetings people that work 12
hours a day 13 hours a day it's it gives
you the energy to do that and then they
take ambien to crash and there's a
wammy go we know his head no no no no no
no yeah it's uh yeah it's there's
millions and millions of people that are
on that stuff
did they ever if you ever ask somebody
on the show like yo you pi-1 well I
don't send anyone ever tell you they're
honest yes
Oh Bailey tell me yeah yeah like at
comedy clubs or on the show
no I've had people tell me on the show
they take out all I've had people in
real life tell me they've taken adderall
I mean I've had people justified I've
had people talk about it with a little
bit of shame that they would like to not
be on it but they're on it because it
helps them be productive and they got to
do what they got to do yeah but but the
real revelation was I have a friend
who's a journalist and he was talking to
me about how many journalists Orana he's
not on it I go how many he goes fucking
Oliver I'm like seriously dude you would
blow your mind blow your mind how many
of cuz it's so effective he wouldn't I
would ii wo no I've never messed with it
yeah if you do Jim you've tried it right
how was it did not like it I had to call
off the next day at work because I
thought I could go to sleep we took a
little bit yeah just to do some art work
because I know I'm gonna have to you
have an unusual Constitution like hey
maybe I guess edible marijuana does not
affect him well like literally he could
take a thousand milligrams to play video
games or more thousand milligrams put
most people under the couch for life
they'd be like no my watch Jamie can
handle it I cannot do that
can't do it you know there was a minute
I was single and a girl said to me let's
tap five one of these lollipops she
pulled him out of her refrigerator
oh so we I took a little lick of a
lollipop she whatever and it was it was
interesting and it wasn't terrible the
next weekend I see the girl again
I'm at my house with and she I hope I'm
not going to me see if I don't think I'm
okay here but she says I got I got any
more lollipops at it and I thought well
that was kind of fun
I take this I lick on this lollipop oh
my god it's so freaked me out I I called
my doctor dr. Dennis of an gelato
is that's his name I'm Nessa I'm saying
that's okay he's good and he I said I
need you to come over right now and
sleep and sleep over he goes he slept he
did he slept in my bedroom at the foot
of that's that's a good doctor
he was so good I said he's right in
Westwood and I was in Malibu and I said
I said I'm serious he goes lucky this is
what will happen I can tell you exactly
what happened it goes up and it's gonna
come down everything I go I don't think
I can survive it I am too scared this is
so he said he'll sleep over and he slept
over in the whole new Wow yeah yeah
that's the problems it was a good these
those lollipops and candies and stuff
like that you've never done this to you
what oh I don't know all the time man
yeah
constantly I don't think so yes honestly
you did really yeah
let's smoke a lot of pot I eat a lot of
pot swear oh yeah but you seem so
rounded by it
oh so you get actually this is all these
this is weed that's a weed you want to
smoke it and see if you go to blue
that's Mike Tyson to levy that fat one
right there that's wait a second
that's weed right there yeah okay you
guys tell me the truth
let me see let me see that our big box
doesn't stay on the way not filled right
now we can open that for wow this is one
of these I put you on the moon like I
can't do anything my doctor was really
wowed but I like to smell of to pot and
stuff yeah that was good but I know it's
not good for me mmm not my thing
margarita tonight maybe tonight actually
I said tomorrow yeah I like margarita I
do too
this is you got all your stuff careful
your snacks no I'm not gonna touch it
okay this is that one this is a real
issue can you do it during the day if
you want to die some spring oh yeah no
yeah of coral highly functional yes I
can yes yeah I really admire it works me
more than at me it works with your so
high-functioning yeah but it just makes
me more sensitive
that's what marijuana
to me but the paranoia I kind of just I
embrace it
you know the paranoia that comes with
being really really high Wow I just
meditate calm down embrace it
enjoy a wave yeah yeah a lot of the
freaking out comes from freaking out
yes no that's it with me you like you're
freaking out and you're like oh my god
I'm freaking out yes watching myself I'm
going oh I'm out of control
yeah I think I'll freak out and then
that's what happened it sounds crazy but
it makes me a nicer person Wow yeah it
makes me nicer I want to be better I
want to be a better person because I'm
five it highlights all the flaws that I
find in my own personality and my own
life
well whatever things I've done that I'm
not proud of or that I think are
mistakes it highlights them and it makes
me think you know more definitely be a
better person
g-good enhances my sense of community
makes you more sensitive me getting in
tighter
can you do that I guess you can't yeah
yeah I'm not an addiction but my choice
you dig it yeah it's fun
I mean you your buddies are cool with it
yeah we do sober October so okay the
entire month of October every year we do
something like last year we did a
fitness challenge which they think it's
like Ramadan yeah it's like oh my god
for us in the year before that we did
hot yoga we'd do 15 hot yoga sessions
over the month yeah this year we have to
do 10 classes of any kind and we have to
read 500 pages of any book yeah so we do
it like to test yourselves yeah but just
and it's fun in a cool little join along
and this year we're all wearing these
whoop straps so what is it loop strap
loop strap is it's it's a fitness
monitor that's it works with this
application that works on your phone
that it monitors heart rate variability
so it tells you how first of all it
tells you how much you're sleeping which
is very revealing
yeah tells you what kind of sleep you're
getting and it gives you like very
detailed analytics it shows it how much
you sleep we stay on that one absolutely
bap Nia so I know because I go to a nap
I have an okay so do you use a CPAP
machine I do
yeah I do I do guys in a row use a CPAP
my friend Chris Ryan who's here right
before you use a CPAP
look at this yeah I've sleep apneas well
I got 87 haha I had a bad day seven
that's the score that's the quotation
it's like a coefficient how many okay I
I wear glasses but you could see it yeah
it says 87 but like what does that mean
like how many hours okay five hours and
52 I think 30 set was at 5:52 yes usage
hours it says five hours and 52 it says
good good yeah okay and the seal seal it
says you had six many interruptions
event six events per hours but it says
no that's not good well it's probably
right I had a bad I didn't sleep
actually this is 0.6 is that the same
thing as six no what does that mean oh
so you didn't have six an hour
yeah six and hours a lot well it's weird
cuz it says zero point six and it says
five in the corner what does that mean
five total over the spot he can do pound
a pot not a problem
it says mask on and off for so you took
your mask off for time to pee and no to
pee twice and then twice because I was
obsessing over something you know I had
to break the obsession oh yeah yeah okay
I wear a mouthpiece
those arrestees down on my tongue yes
use my tongue from falling back over oh
the hole in my mouth oh so it's not
about your teeth it's about going back
yes yeah yeah what is that thing what's
that called that would happen who
doesn't matter what it's called dr.
Kevorkian that his name kuroh peon no I
work in the murderer opiate whoops
mistake yeah it just keeps your tongue
from falling back I have a that tongue
that's my problem is that fat closes the
air hole geez yeah so it keeps it from
doing that a lot to be said about yeah
yes yeah so um yeah okay so with the
whoop strap does is it monitors all you
management but it also measures heart
rate variability so it tells you whether
you're tired or not um so if you've got
a hard workout and then you're still a
little beat down the next day it'll show
you on the application
here's your heart rate your heart rate
is responding to the fact that you had
an extremely stressful physically
stressful day so good stresses and bad
stress is exercise and lack of sleep all
those things are monitored and it gives
you like pretty detailed analytics so
we're all wearing these straps and we're
doing these 10 different classes like
we've done tactical gun classes yoga
classes and boxing classes and the whole
idea about the month is sort of just
helping yourself like doing doing things
that are good for you
self-help great got it I see yeah like
yeah self-help yeah like this is the
month of getting smarter better getting
learning some new shit you know
meditating getting you know getting an
education reading you know 500 words the
guy's the f Segura I was a stand-up
comedian Bert Kreischer another comedian
and the Ari Shaffir and myself and we've
done this for the last well the first
year Tom and Bert had a weight loss
challenge and in the second year we said
okay we'll all jump in and we'll all be
sober this time because they weren't
sober the first time I'm like they just
lost weight and we'll all be sober and
we'll have you like to fulfill these
number of hot yoga classes so with 15
90-minute hot yoga classes and then the
next year we 15 90-minute yeah Wow and
then the next year we had a crazy
fitness challenge that got a little out
of hand so we decided not compete with
each other anymore because we were
literally going five six seven hours a
day of working out yeah seven hours a
day at cardia it was bananas it was nuts
yeah yeah it was getting high on
exercise and so then this year on your
group I know I know why now this year
was just just just the fitness classes
different classes ten classes and then
500 pages of any book just reading
something pretty great yeah it's fun
yeah it's gives me something to do to it
like we look forward to it and then a
lot of fans do it along with us so a lot
of people go sober through the month and
join in with us and you fans from the
show yeah say hey I want to be part of
this now they just jump in I mean you
wear a whoop strap - you can compare the
amount of sleep and the amount of
exercise that you get to us
but more importantly for people it's
nice for people that maybe don't even
know that they have a little bit of an
issue with substances I mean maybe
you're not alcoholics or drug addicts
but maybe they just are indulging a
little too much and so they'll get this
break for October because they're
committed for the entire month and then
what they see is like you know what I
feel a lot better and you know I mean I
don't have a problem but I do feel a lot
better when I'm not drinking all the
time because I know comedy clubs you
know have a couple beers hey you want to
do a shot alright let's do a shot and
then the next thing oh then I go to the
jam and it's like a little bit more of a
struggle you have this entire month you
know what does it say 23rd this yeah
there's none of that this entire month
it's just you feel your gun yeah yeah
and you realize like that is an
unnecessary tax around your system
alcohol in particular you know pot
doesn't make me feel like shit the next
day but it definitely does some wonky
things to your memory pot the first or
oh yeah for sure
we all have a foggy memory oh yeah
definitely does something to you
remember I mean that's pretty much been
proven ok no that's interesting yeah so
do these go and you guys can afford to
do that because you can still work yeah
yeah stand up still do podcast still do
everything yeah and then we have no
remember November where we get blitzed
ok look forward to really blitz you just
go for it yeah went went hard couple of
days in November last and your buddies
are funny guys yeah they keep each other
for yeah well it's a camaraderie thing -
yeah the four of us it's a lot of
bonding and it's very fun like the
podcast we have are very fun and the one
that we did when sober October was over
last year was ridiculous we were we were
barbecued it was very fun yeah but it's
it's it is a good thing for people just
to have that monthly that one month
reset of their system yeah just to give
them a perspective like hey you know
maybe it'd be better if you didn't drink
you know maybe better if you took some
time off maybe better if you exercised
and and really thought about things this
way I mean we're only doing it once a
month but we even proposed to
times a year and appropriate and
approves too I guess obviously it's
which it does prove to you you can do it
yes and that's important yeah thing it's
like having an exit right yeah you know
when you're trapped on a boat or you're
someplace would be what you have an exit
here yeah no you can do it well the
motivation for a lot of it was our
friend Bert who drinks too much and he's
calmed down quite a bit
apparently because of doing that first
podcast where we did go sober for the
whole month because we were we didn't
think he could do it because even during
the weight loss challenge Tom who won
the weight loss challenge Tom didn't
drink anything but water the entire
month and worked out like crazy and lost
a ton of weight
Bert kept drinking the entire month and
also worked out like crazy and tried to
lose weight and what happened he lost no
can you compete with doesn't work yeah
it's just it was a dumb way of doing it
you know wasn't I wasn't as effective
right yeah of course
do you now there's this new like this
nutritional exercise or weight loss I
don't want to only call it that of like
lettuce it 16 Ives I don't know it's ten
hours on 10 hours off oh it was fasting
so intermittent fasting yes basically I
can't lose weight so I mean I'm a happy
I don't need to lose weight actually but
I could get stronger and we have better
you know disciplines in Aries so but
that particular thing is about losing
weight I think mostly it's about losing
weight but it's also about feeling
better and raising your ketone levels
which is one thing that does happen when
you go long periods of time and you get
your body accustomed to this period of
time where you're not eating you know
this is timed eating or whatever they
call it what it was that the term they
refer to it as it's not just
intermittent fasting there's time
restricted eating yeah okay
there's there's some benefit on your
digestive system as well you know so
your body's not eating you know 10 hours
a day 15 hours a day or you know even
more with some people some people are
just eating constantly throughout the
day instead of this you have a four hour
window or a six-hour window or an
eight-hour window whatever you decide it
is and during that time you can eat but
after that it's over and then you cannot
eat for X amount of hours whether it's
10 or 12 or 14 yeah you get accustomed
to it though ya see my goal because I
don't know if I could I'm sure you could
prove me wrong but I'm not sure I could
do any of those really strict
disciplines of any type almost so I've
always thought if I do everything with
moderation I might not have to do one of
these things that I might find to be too
strong just wrecked it's not hard it's
not hard it's not no you seem sure it
does seem hard so you really hard yeah
get used to it though you honestly get
used to it and then once you do get used
to it then it becomes normal okay yeah I
and there's what you get like a couple
three days four days or a week or
something yeah yeah once you get a few
days in it's no big deal
yeah is that a way of saying that if I
really committed to it it's possible I
could do it of course all right okay
look you're an accomplished man you can
do anything you want you just have to
force yourself to do it for ceman just
decide but I need a compelling reason
right do it sure well that's one of the
dancers said right yeah that doctor that
sleeps over your house
write a prescription but like the thing
that we talked about like sober October
one of the things about it is that we
all know that this is coming October 1st
boom it's here yeah so you're committed
for the month it's not like a wishy
washy are you nervous about it no is
there any anticipate anticipatory yeah
you stressed no not really but you think
about it you've done it a couple years
ago now three years in a row but the
thing about it is that it's there it's a
real thing it starts and then you don't
you can't be wishy-washy like part of
the thing that it has people have a
problem with diets and with exercise
routines is that they're wishy-washy
they give themselves a way out if you
know that you have to work out one hour
six days a week yeah every day you have
to work out one hour you get one day a
week off yeah no cheating
yeah and you write it down on schedule
and you decide all the month of November
I'm gonna work out one hour
a day six days a week period and then
I'm gonna write it down I'm gonna mark
my calendar with an axe every time I
accomplished that well if you just do
that you're gonna get it done but if you
say um I need to work out more well
that's not a very specific they're a
little flexible yeah yeah doesn't
specifically
you have to go there's no this is this
is absolute
yeah these boundaries are inflexible you
have to hold yourself accountable okay
yeah you have to make sure that you're
accountable all right now what I pick
something up like that I'm gonna let you
know what would you want to do like if
you wanted to do something if you had a
thing and you say hmm but what I want to
do maybe I'm not not drinking for a
month I've never havin done that how
about no booze November but that's
coming up maybe next year how much time
you need to prepare a year sounds good
so bright over why don't you do sober
October with us next year
Wow how about that that gives you in my
mind I got it not sure well I'm gonna
try to I'm gonna try to think about
doing it yeah you don't have to do it
yeah
but but I can I can try to warm up and
think it's possible certainly could do
it yeah you should probably could do it
I mean I took a week off and then it was
very I know I could have gone well yes a
little bit a little bit but I thought
after the week I thought I could keep
going but that is that I don't know it's
kind of nice luxury to have a margarita
glass oh it is a nice luxury so I
thought I don't know how does no one's
making me not I'll just go back to
drinking right yeah that's the thing I
mean I have no reason you know like but
if I had reasons and I'd like I didn't
want to wear that sleep apnea machine
and I put it off for five six years
really yeah and and then by the way
these sleep apnea machines got smaller
and smaller and smaller and less
intrusive so now they're very easy yeah
but it still was somewhat intrusive and
now I it's it's
I always sleep with it I never thought I
would do that because I thought and I'm
laying my wife I like to feel like the
more oh manic guy or something or it
could be inside my Darth Vader
that's what it sounds like yeah start
Feiner it does I don't know I don't know
how she perceives it yeah
I will be honest she wants me on it she
goes at the tube of life but you have
the tubule - oh that's me live like sure
yeah so thank God
well it really does you sleeping right
next to me I'm glad you want to feel
live it's probably just want you snore
either yeah I don't snore I never snored
really yeah the sleep apnea that I had
wasn't a snoring it was more like like
choking car yeah the choking kind of
thing where you'd um you you stopped
breathing right so it's not snoring got
it
yeah yeah yeah it's scary stuff a lot of
people have it
well yeah it's terrible for your health
yeah your health and you lose oxygen to
your brain all these different things
and so many were to leave leave that
alone because I do do it I don't want to
jinx myself out here I'm very
superstitious so I really very very very
so if I doing something right I don't
want to I don't want to brag about it I
don't want to do it because I then I'll
think I just you fucked it I don't yeah
I don't want to fuck with things like
this when an equilibrium has been found
whatever that thing is
hmm I just quiet down on it so you find
something that works you find a good
vibe yeah but I'll stick with it I don't
brag about it I don't say thing cuz then
I think maybe someone had bad a lot you
know right so I once was fat actually
really gif Chuck by can you know roles
like the guys that have rolls of fat and
the thing and I was with a girl who you
know was a very very serious young and
everything inch we went to her Beach her
Beach was cut little doom you know doom
Beach and little doom and she's talks to
these she goes I have to go talk to
these guys and they were the cool surfer
dudes and it was like 25 years ago 30
years ago and she's talks these guys and
they start laugh
and I go what do you like what are you
guys laughing at to her because she's
now left these and they're back there
and I see it a chorus of them kind of
laughing they go well I guess they're
laughing because they said we never
thought you'd be with like a fat guy and
I thought wow they look at me and that's
what they're that's what they're seeing
and they think it's funny I gotta fix
this and I that was like the straight-up
October forever for me that is what's
called fat shaming fat shaming yeah I
don't even know that there's a phrase
yeah you know you never heard of fat
shaming never heard it
well that's it's a very controversial
thought because some people think that
fat shaming is terrible and that you
shouldn't do it to people and what other
people say that faith it's true it
doesn't work on certain people but it
makes people feel bad and some people
think you should protect people from
feeling bad whereas other people think
you should tell them that they're fat so
they feel bad so they act on it how do
you see it I say we call it
I'm the latter I think you should tell
people that they're fat if they want to
no I don't think you should I know you
mean life they want to know I don't
think you should protect what's it what
say okay give me the signal um if you
want to know like your wisdom friendiy
hood yeah I'd say you're with someone
you only know a little bit I wouldn't
say anything then okay so now you're
with I said we're talking about like
relatives or no yeah about a husband
wife or yeah boyfriend girlfriend that's
tough because they can resent you
forever yeah you gotta be real careful
especially the ladies yeah yeah and if
you're a man and you resent your wife
forever cuz she tells you're fat you're
probably not really a man that's really
funny
you might be a little bitch oh my god
can't believe you said that really I
mean I like it because I don't know what
you liking you might be a little bitch
it might be a little bitch yeah if your
wife says you're fat and like if my wife
tells me I'm fat I'm like um I'm not fat
yeah are you talking about doesn't work
you only works if you're fat it's good
thing if they're saying so yeah yeah
yeah it's one thing if they're saying
something about something you
can't control like I wish you were black
I don't like white okay I feel terrible
it sounds like you have no boundaries on
your show right okay the guys that have
really little dicks whoo that's a row
that's rough one
I hate yeah I got it I I'm hearing you
so do you think the girl the what list
do you think and the girlie-girl attire
to get there who did the girl ever say
yeah ever does it I'm sure some didn't
say it but here's the thing some girls
we feel pretty like rough guys we can
talk some girls or some girls who are
beautiful beautiful girls yeah
are also lesbians oh yes right yes so
some girls popular did some girls who
are beautiful girls are bisexual so they
like girls and guys here's a question
with those girls be more likely to
settle for a guy with a little dick yes
or a rich guy with is it they like girls
to be girls and like guys no matter what
to have a big dick all right the way
that's I think they're like probably the
latter
unfortunately evolutions a motherfucker
really is yeah I think that uh that's
you know there's not a damn thing a
person can do about that one you know
you can suck fat out of your waist to
stuff in your ass you get fake boobs
this is like shit you do if you got a
little dick that's a rammasun I mean
it's probably there's some operations
that can help you out a little bit I
think that but the most part yes yeah
cutting and dick makes guys crazy we're
sure I think it guaranteed you must yeah
must make them suicidal because it's
when I started throwing shit right now
that would mean like we had looked maybe
and if a crazy I think I think there's
certain things that you know there's
nothing you do about it you just have to
hit handle that roll the dice whatever
you got yeah
I would guess yeah that's one of them
but I mean if if things like crisper and
genetic manipulation and things they're
working on now yeah that's probably one
of the first things they're gonna work
on that's fine I ever thought
oh yeah right on the show today I think
[Laughter]
I don't think I think there's anything
more profitable except yeah beauty
beauty would be incredible for people
who both on that same depart somewhat
yeah area yeah yeah being like cousin
whatever it is cosmetics I guess yeah
yeah yeah not just cosmetics but even
you know people that are not a guy with
a frame you're not operational no I'm
not operational
I mean maybe one day they'll be able to
do something yeah
they shoot a little virus in your body
and then also yeah that'd be something
it can happen yeah I mean it's not
insurmountable scientifically yeah
there's so many things there are they're
already doing genetic manipulation yeah
that's not outside the room it's not
outside the realm it seems possible
let's start calling our scientist right
now call him up yeah and see what's
nothing yeah so anyway that you learned
about fat shaming I got that that simple
you didn't know about that
that's like in the zeitgeist right now
is it yeah people admit that well for
fat shaming yeah hmm yeah James Corden
got mad at Bill Maher did Omar was
mocking fat shaming and saying maybe we
should be shaming people more to him
directly no no oh just the omar was
talking about on his television show
that maybe we should be shaming people
no I see I see
then James Corden said I have a problem
with that and you know he's talking and
been made a bunch of fat jokes which I
found were kind of kind of weird I'm
making fat jokes while you're being
upset that someone's calling you fat
yeah he thought he could get that one by
you we did that one didn't give by
nobody he also does have a comedy talk
show so it makes sense that he was
making jokes
yeah and comedic in here but it does
it's it's it's not something that you
can't fix and that's one of the things
that people have a problem with being
sympathetic about it and that was Bill
Maher's statement his bill is obviously
a very slim man yeah but it's not
something you can't fix
it's a problem to fix it's hard to fix
hard probably requires discipline and
also your your gut biomes probably all
screwed up from eating bad foods and you
know you probably are accustomed to
certain certain behavior patterns that
are unhealthy for you yeah the times
you're eating the kind of foods you're
eating yeah I fixed I fixed mine with
them but I mean I wasn't fat in the wood
that really you fix it with shame
I fixed it was shame she shamed me and I
start jumping rope and I started with I
do all everything with an achievable
goal I just did a couple minutes and I
just kept going and then pretty soon you
know I did the rope with the that had a
counter on it with those plastic beads
it gives a little weight on them and a
nylon rope a nylon cord and you could
really whack get it going so yeah I
could do 200 beats a minute for 30
minutes and you're holding your body
very tight so it actually I didn't think
of it that way but it really strengthens
strengthen my core yeah jumping rope is
amazing yeah so you obviously do yeah
it's great
he's only to warm up or mostly yeah I
just do it going yeah yeah yeah but for
boxers that's why the boxers use it so
much I mean it's it's a staple of boxing
work yes it is yeah yeah yeah you're
always on your toes
yeah so it's it keeps your calves
conditioned and though helps your body
ability yeah shift movement I mean
strong calves and strong feet are very
very important for boxing and anything
that requires movement football players
a lot of football players use jump rope
hmm to help their ability to move side
to side and help with mobility yeah
great work out too just great
cardiovascular hmm yeah all right it's
very trendy right now - is it another
trendy is another trendy thing yet the
antidote to fat shaming well there's a
lot of videos online where people are
doing like these YouTube workouts of
jumping rope and then they also have
weighted ropes which is makes me I used
a weighted rope - yeah I used to go
everywhere with these ropes so further
in an airport I'd be doing it I remember
being on a tarmac in Greece in Athens
waiting and I was doing it I would
in the rain I would I always every day I
did it that I did with no fit without
fail for almost 12 years Wow do a
trainer a personal trainer I do now I
didn't then but I do now right because I
think what helps me so much also it
helps me get into the gym without fail
because I don't want to him have him
wait Derek wait Derek I shouted to Derek
because I said some about I'm doing Joe
Rogan and he goes all right listen him
all the time I go
give me some mints I really start
collecting stuff he had fact I could
even show you
he wrote notes I didn't read them
because I didn't feel like I had to uh
but literally I'm sorry but anyway so
Derek okay oh it's so long I mean this
is embarrassing and I didn't read it so
okay so every morning it's it's good
morning bro good morning bro good
morning bro that means he's here morning
bro and this is it hey bro you wanted a
text about boy yeah it's Derek a bro he
sounds like a bro he's a guy from
Detroit he says bro a lot yes I don't
he's not a I don't know how bro E but he
does know him bro and actually I've even
said to him a nice way don't say hey bro
every morning because it just doesn't
roll like that and I want to say you got
to chop it up a little bit mix it up hey
fella
it'd be funny I call people who fell all
the time yeah I think it'd be funny you
say hey vet
I like that like strong guy good fella
so fellow I'm gonna try it I like funny
yeah hey fella I mean everyone you're
all your millions of listeners will know
that I'm ripping from you what you gave
it to me you said you can say it that's
a mine line I say it all the time we're
gently or how do you think a fella I say
like that yeah like if I saw you I'd be
like hey fella I like it now I'm
thinking about though now it sounds
weird because I'm being self-conscious
but yeah but you'll get them off the
show
tomorrow you get back to go back to
normal I like it I'm gonna feel that
yeah it's not it's not an issue okay so
what is Derek what kind of advice to
give you on the show yeah uh it said I
didn't look at it but when he gave me
some advice he said you know he told me
your background first of all I didn't
realize the chronology of your
background I didn't know he knew gee he
knows New Jersey right he just knew all
this stuff oh so he didn't America pedia
well I think you know he did more than
Wikipedia no no I know that sounds but
yes that leads you to Wikipedia but I
popped that on him so it wasn't like
that was today so he didn't like go let
me just tell you about it he didn't do
the right looking at his smartphone
he knows your show really well he's a em
he's a guy's guy you know and he's bro
he's a straight talker guy he's a right
yeah he's a bro that expression is weird
because it used to be like first of all
black dudes owned it Yeah right what up
bro it was like that and then it became
white guys like dorky white guys okay
I'm gonna give it to you right as you
seem interested in everything okay I
like I like the Rogan podcast because
it's casual conversation fellowship he
always sets the guests at ease and
weaves two topics seamlessly I leave it
alone okay
but he says everything is awesome I mean
you're saying bro you're so perfect
what kind of stuff is Derrick having you
do Oh physically physically well okay so
I get in there and I do an elliptical
you know for me I do it as high as hard
as you could possibly do it for 20
minutes so it gets everything kind of
going and pulling my rotary cups so it
lubes that up a little bit and I have
some injuries they're a dying thing
about it the rotator cuff my doctor you
know him anneal elet raj okay he's what
he does you have teams and stuff you say
I don't need surgery eventually I will
have to eventually I might have to have
surgery
he says I'm a surgeon that's what I do
but I don't want you to have surgery you
don't need it you're gonna have you have
the same strength you would have and it
just will hurt a little bit and and this
is a rotator cuff tear
it's a rotator rotator cuff tear have
you ever had stem cells no is that a
good idea yeah oh tell me okay oh wow
I'm getting this from the man right on
Park I'll talk to you after it's over
and okay give you uh like places I would
go and talk to I had a full length
rotator cuff tear and it's gone from
stem cells is there any thing no no no
nothing negative not for me
and I I know of no negative
repercussions that's fantastic
the place where I go is the well the
place I go is in Santa Monica and I've
been there I would go in there for years
what's the name of the place lifespan
medicine oh it's not mark Forester no no
no life spin okay I don't know you'll
I'll explain everything I would love
that thank you so much okay but there's
a lot of different treatments that they
they can do now that for soft tissue
tears things like rotator cuffs and
muscle tears and things along those
lines they can it's amazing what they
can do now Wow
okay I'd be awesome so what does he have
me do I do you know variety of different
of weights you know multiple you know
curls he mixes it up so it's sort of
cross-training so I'll do different
things cool I'll use those little slides
that I love put on your feet and you
there's four different things you can do
you open them and you do the pushup
shoot and I like it because it's hard to
and I think I do it all in the morning I
do it at it start at 6:30 Wow he shows
up at 7:00 this is what my Monday
Wednesday Friday he goes like this for
me
from 6:30 7:00 I do my own stuff just
lipstick or elliptical just getting a
few other things you might he might even
do those little slides he shows up at
7:00 hey bro
he's hey bro and me and then he worked
we work out till 10:00
eight at 5:00 to 8:00 so and then for
five minutes he puts out that bolt on my
legs and CAF's you know - like Lube you
know make my muscles more relaxed but
you talking about like a neuromuscular -
yeah yes thank you
okay all right electrical muscular
stimulator electrical musculars - yes
simulator and so we do that and then I
run next door and I play tennis for an
hour usually one on one tennis with a
pro named Buster the best a shoutout to
Buster so after that so a half hour lip
to go and then you do the weights yeah
you do this different kinds of physical
work again you play tennis for an hour a
tennis for an hour so Wow
so you're done like what 10 a.m. no I'm
done exactly at 9 a.m. you know
sometimes I go I have to leave a few
minutes early but like 5:00 tonight or
so we've run right from the gym straight
over to tennis so no missing time and
right next door nobody right next door
yeah door skip written hams house okay
Bam Bam for him yeah and so then I play
tennis and then I rush back and I take
shower really fast and then I'm on the
road and then you do you work now you go
to work Wow but I'm up early actually at
five o'clock I'm doing work and I'm
looking at videos and I'm reading things
and 5:00 a.m. huh I read every one
that's every morning I just wake up at
that time coffee coffee
yeah lots of coffees and but I get
excited about the day I bet that's great
I get really excited about that means
you're doing what you're supposed to be
doing okay you enjoy what you're doing I
really excited about it I'm really
excited about it I really enjoy what I'm
doing and I joy enjoy my life I love
hearing that from people that are
successful well good because it's it
means you've found the thing that's
fulfilling yes and it's continually
fulfilling yes which is the real problem
with a lot of folks sometimes things are
fulfilling initially but then they lose
their luster yeah but for you as many
movies as you made as long as been in
the game that you're still getting up at
5:00 in the morning yeah super safe
today I'm not feeling like I have to I
just want to that's awesome thanks
ya know I mean it's really true I'm
really excited and I you know my my life
is good my kids are great you know
they've gone through some changes they
all kids do and they're really in the
right spot you know they're my youngest
kid just turned 16 he plays football at
Notre Dame he's not a big kid but he
wanted to own it he wanted to own a
choice and he's really disciplined
really really in and he's he's just so
not a pussy he's like the you know he's
just a tough guy that's awesome and I'm
really proud of him and happy and you
know I'd go through the rest of the
three as well for total what other kind
of things do you like to do with your
day I mean you're obviously a guy that's
into self-improvement yeah so one of the
kind of things you do meditate at all
I do meditate I do TM I do it once a day
but I know you're supposed to do it
twice a day are you supposed to it I'm
supposed to do it twice a day but having
a night is how you supposed to do
something like that yeah but I don't I
can't pull that off so I don't demand
that upon myself
I don't demand upon myself things that I
they can't quite do I know I should and
I'm trying to my friend sorry my friend
Tom Popat does TM and he won't tell me
what his mantra is will you tell me what
your mantra is no I get I had two of
them because I'm actually de pecho Pro
20 years gave me one back 15 years I
have to be honest 15 years because I was
really in need of meditation to stop the
cycle gave you a mantra he gave me a
Mike came to my office taught me how to
meditate and gave me a mantra and then I
died you know I dropped it and then
recently about five years ago
Veronica was my wife was big shout out
to my wife she's a shout out to Veronica
thank you for third shout out today yeah
that's good
and so she and I took a TM from Bob Roth
Bob Roth is is the founder of the David
Lynch men you know Meditation Center and
he's a very good guy
we could you know we're good okay and
and so we do that and sometimes we get
Bob Roth on the phone because he lives
in New York
and we'll just do it in the backyard and
we'll have him on speaker and we'll
he'll talk through the framework of it
and and then he's quiet and we're quiet
we meditate oh nice you meditate yes
I just find it amazing how many TM
people won't tell you they're yeah
they're whatever they're chanting we're
told not to yeah that's why it's weird
it's like what why would somebody have
that much power over you write it as an
abracadabra is it Alakazam what are you
saying I the the style of meditation I
do
I just concentrate on my breath I think
only about guiding in only about
breathing in and only about breathing
out that's all I think about so the when
I'm concentrating I'm thinking only
about the breath in and only about the
breath out and it goes off the rails I
think about other things and I have to
get back yeah track it oh it does
there's no way around that I usually
hold it's okay there right yeah yeah
it's okay I catch you yet I used to
think that it wasn't I used to think god
I'm weak I can't - can't stay on track
but now I realize that's not the point
the point is - it's just be part of
being a person just yeah let it happen
but keep keep on track keep on keep on
track and you get off track just get
back on track again
don't ya don't freak out about it don't
beat yourself up and all that but I find
it very cleansing me - it does something
just something it when it opens you up
in a very nice way it's yours who who is
the who's the person that turned you on
to it or is it a type of meditation that
there's a name to it or no not really
just something it's tough I've read
about and I started doing it in an
isolation tank I started doing it I have
one here really yeah when I leave we
could look at those yeah yeah yeah oh
yeah sensory deprivation tank shout-out
to the float lab never been to one ever
used one know how they're amazing you
should get one it's a great way to visit
portable ones who aren't there yeah I
have done one I have done one and I
liked it but I bet there's I can't wait
to see yours because I bet there's a
better way I did it so makeshift
yeah I'm sure yeah the float labs the
most advanced ones and they have a place
in Westwood and in Venice they have a
place where you can go in
for an hour but the the best thing that
I found met is was in inside the tank
was to just concentrate on breathing
breathing in through the nose and out
through the mouth and in through the
nose and out through the mouth like and
that's all I would concentrate I was
breathing in and breathing out breathing
in and breathing out and then I kind of
go into this trance when I was inside
the tank and so then when I what didn't
have access to the tank I started
utilizing that outside of the tank and
so I just and when everything is any if
something's bothering me if I've got
something that because I'm an obsessive
person so I get a thought in my head
about something I'm working on or
something I'm trying to fix and I just
start rolling over in my head to the
point where I can't get it I can't get
it away mmm
so then the way I can cleanse that and
put my brain back on a good cycle is
just concentrate on breathing so I use
the same method that would use inside
the tank and I use it outside the tank
but I want to try eeehm yeah I'm gonna
try I'm gonna try to do it this month
while we're doing these different
classes this month I'm gonna try to take
a class maybe go to this guy Matt broth
show me yeah
well he's you know kind of all over the
in New York okay so but he comes out
here because he has many people in Los
Angeles and he makes sure to come I
think once a month or so okay yeah well
I'll talk to you yeah go figure no I
think he's you know for me I think the
best I've met a few of them but he he
made without saying take it seriously he
describes it in a way that I understood
what it was and he has some authority in
him that made me take it seriously where
is the other times I didn't take it
quite as seriously it is it's kind of
important who introduces it to you yeah
I think I think so do ya yeah I mean
it's like what you were talking about
earlier about people that are really
enthusiastic about something yeah really
committed and and disciplined about it
that it's very it's it's very contagious
it is I think the same thing about
meditation or about anything yeah
there's a certain energy you get when
you're talking to someone who's really
into what they're into yeah really into
it if they're really into TM you'll get
a feeling and then you'll be able to
recreate
some of that yes when you do it on your
own I'd imagine yes yeah and yeah well
you'll like how it's described it's um I
don't know if you've basically know I
listed okay do it yourself okay
now what other stuff do you do in terms
of self-improvement should I ask for
Chanukah no I'm I'm can't buy think a
little like you as I've researched you
that I'm constantly reading things like
all of the time always nonfiction
however no friction at all no I I just
know that's interesting for someone who
produces a lot of fiction well I what I
like is I yes that's right what I've
found in my life the the like the for me
the foundational creative ingredients
are in ingredient to a creative equation
like making a movie or a TV show or
painting or his counterpoint so I have
found that I'm dreamy enough myself you
know like I you know and I've read of
course all joseph campbell stuff so i
kind of understand formats of myths and
the hair with a thousand faces and and
and i particularly like underdog stories
there are so many types of underdog
stories that it's um so anyway so i have
that basic knowledge and then when i
learn a subject let's say i learn this
subject of architecture or physics or a
little bit of chemistry or whatever the
you know it's it's all like from an
archaeological perspective because it's
all new to me so i found for example
when i produce the movie 8 mile which is
about hip hop right it's about it
battles in detroit first i thought mmm
i could even go back further i'll could
do this quickly though i thought i me
should get like the hottest you know
video director the coolest guy and I
won't say those names but there there
were the guys they were very visible at
being the best at those video those hot
videos and then it occurred to me I
should get somebody that
approaches it again archaeologically
where everything is a discovery so I
hired someone they knew nothing about
hip-hop what was passionate about
wanting to do the movie and he was named
Curtis Hanson he's deceased right now
but he won I think believe two Oscars
for LA Confidential hmm it was kind of a
classic American filmmaker that looked
at everything was sort of a discovery
lens and that's why you were able to see
if if I pick the video guy that thinks
he knows everything about hip hop then
all the little nuances that are new to
the audience's eyes would have never
been shot because he'd think oh
everybody knows that stuff that to get
the good stuff you know yeah and so
sometimes Authority on top of authority
doesn't work out well and I found that
my career all I did was write and
produce comedies for the first 17 years
of my movie career starting with night
shift and then splash and Parenthood and
Nutty Professor and Liar Liar and I
could you know a lot of comedies a lot
of five Eddie Murphy thing you know Jim
Carrey three times you know and what I
found was Jewish writers Christian
actors and the Jewish words they go Jew
writers goyim actor and goyim is like
when Jewish people say it's the
Christian mia the Catholic guy it's
always I made eight movies I think with
Tom Hanks but he's he's like the Gary
Cooper or he's the Christian guy with
the Jewish writers always works
why do you want you know good Christian
and Christian not funny really yeah it
just doesn't play what's wrong with you
on Jew the comedy only one Jew on Jew
kind of worked in the last
Woody Allen and they weren't in meteoric
hits he was just like you know he he was
sort of dominated the ethos you know of
you know I mean he of comedy in the 70s
and 80s but yeah
it just doesn't work you can't really
say but you could name
I mean judd apatow talented Jewish
writer director usually he's got these
guys that are like not they're just not
that they're Catholic Christian guys you
know like our girls right I mean who's
the chicken train wreck the Melissa
McCarthy McCarthy she's Catholic right
he's a Jew is like that's the the
counterpoint is what works isn't train
wreck Amy Schumer
is it Melissa McCarthy so you might be
right oh it might be both yeah
it's both oh thank god thank every good
tiebreaker here so anyway do you prefer
to do comedy or do you prefer just a
movie that interest you
he's just interest just whatever it is
but there was a point like at the end of
these 17 years of like make you know
what there's a point where I've
definitely made a lot you know did well
financially I'm making these movies and
I enjoy it cuz when you're around comedy
you're you're well happy you're laughing
yeah that's the whole vibe of the fair
um but I thought they just don't you
cannot get enough respect just doing
comedy so I thought I'm gonna have to
try to just do dramas cuz I I've come
close I got nominated but that's as
close as I got there was no way on
splash they were gonna pick and the
writers are the funny guys over there
Robert Benton you know like the guy that
wrote a place in the heart you know or
places in art and Bonnie and Clyde like
they picked man guy the classy guys so I
felt like if I want to join the classy
guys I better start doing dramas and
then I did Apollo 13 and ransom and a
bunch of dramas that's interesting so
that's what motivated you to switch it
up yeah that was my motive me I just
couldn't take the abuse any lack of
producing massively successful movies
yeah I mean I felt I felt grateful in
stuff but I just felt like I understand
you did you feel like you got the
respect you deserve yeah I just like
they're so comedies are so hard
they're um you do company comedy is the
hardest thing because when it doesn't
work you hear it it's embarrassed it's
bad yeah drama is the great dramas I
could tell you that all those dramas
that we see in the last five years they
go it's great it's brilliant I mean I
don't even know what happened on some of
these things they're so slow right or
the my so I II can and you
there's no defining you know no one's
clap you know yours no God you hear
everybody was really quite they're quiet
cuz there was asleep what did you think
of the Joker okay I have to break the
Joker down because I know a lot of
people that are moralistically very
against it
yes you know my generation is really mad
at it I thought as a movie that movie
was really badass that movie was I
thought it was really good masterpiece
masterpiece oh my god those sequences
and the going down the stairs and the
music choices that was a masterpiece it
was amazing I loved it
now the the other this other unit that
you you know if they're if the movies
broken down into two units the one is
the master the masterpiece we're calling
of the movie itself and then what's you
know what are the themes that are giving
life to this movie or the purpose or
what are this what's the purpose I mean
you could go well that could be you know
that you know there could be some bad
stuff in there you know or but I'm not
deep enough to know I could identify it
exactly and having made so many movies I
can't be judgmental of it I liked it and
so I just feel like people in glass
houses shouldn't throw stones I think
that's a good way of looking and how do
you see it can you ask I thought it was
brilliant but very disturbing yeah but
it was supposed to be disturbing and I
think they accomplished their goal you
know with flying colors I think it was a
very very unusual movie very difficult
to find any parallels with any other
previous movie exactly I thought it was
fucking amazing
yeah then when I left I didn't feel good
yeah I didn't feel like that it was like
wow I'm going to party great yeah
yeah I was like fuck I walked out of the
theater like fuck yeah just blows you
away yeah no good and me and my wife
talked about it for a long time you know
was she honest she loved it oh but she
it's not her kind of movie yeah but it
was there was something about it it was
so well executed and Joaquin Phoenix was
amazing it was kind of operatic and
somehow I mean we're the music and
everything yeah I mean the build-up to
it too there was so much going on and so
much madness and yeah he understood you
you felt empathy for this guy who was
ultimately a monster and a murderer yes
spoiler alert but I felt you felt for
him yeah you know I mean in that sense
they they managed to navigate those
incredibly treacherous waters
brilliantly yeah I thought it was
fucking awesome yeah good me too no I
mean that directors great yeah no he's
great do you Phillips I'm sure you know
him but don't I hope friends who know
him yeah yeah my friend Brian Cowen he
was in the hangover and he's in I was in
this movie briefly too yeah okay but I
don't know yeah so that's that that's
that yeah Brian I got to wrap this up
but okay I've really enjoyed it man
thank you very very much
you're so welcome really appreciate it I
really enjoy talking to you Thanks I
feel really grateful to be on your show
I feel really grateful to be able to
talk to you thank you thank you very
much thanks great bye everybody
wow wow wow wow thank you
[Music]